README.md, before:

<div align = "right">
<a href="docs/readme/README.zh-cn.md">简体中文(待更新)</a>
</div>

# RMCP
Wait for the first release.
<!-- [![Crates.io Version](todo)](todo) -->
<!-- ![Release status](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg) -->
<!-- [![docs.rs](todo)](todo) -->
![Coverage](docs/coverage.svg)

An official rust Model Context Protocol SDK implementation with tokio async runtime.


This repository contains the following crates:

- [rmcp](crates/rmcp): The core crate providing the RMCP protocol implementation( If you want to get more information, please visit [rmcp](crates/rmcp/README.md))
- [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros): A procedural macro crate for generating RMCP tool implementations(If you want to get more information, please visit [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros/README.md))

## Usage

### Import the crate

```toml
rmcp = { version = "0.1", features = ["server"] }
## or dev channel
rmcp = { git = "https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk", branch = "main" }
```
### Third Dependencies
Basic dependencies:
- [tokio required](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tokio)
- [serde required](https://github.com/serde-rs/serde)



### Build a Client
<details>
<summary>Start a client</summary>

```rust, ignore
use rmcp::{ServiceExt, transport::{TokioChildProcess, ConfigureCommandExt}};
use tokio::process::Command;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let client = ().serve(TokioChildProcess::new(Command::new("npx").configure(|cmd| {
        cmd.arg("-y").arg("@modelcontextprotocol/server-everything");
    }))?).await?;
    Ok(())
}
```
</details>

### Build a Server

<details>
<summary>Build a transport</summary>

```rust, ignore
use tokio::io::{stdin, stdout};
let transport = (stdin(), stdout());
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Build a service</summary>

You can easily build a service by using [`ServerHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/server.rs) or [`ClientHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/client.rs).

```rust, ignore
let service = common::counter::Counter::new();
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Start the server</summary>

```rust, ignore
// this call will finish the initialization process
let server = service.serve(transport).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Interact with the server</summary>

Once the server is initialized, you can send requests or notifications:

```rust, ignore
// request
let roots = server.list_roots().await?;

// or send notification
server.notify_cancelled(...).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Waiting for service shutdown</summary>

```rust, ignore
let quit_reason = server.waiting().await?;
// or cancel it
let quit_reason = server.cancel().await?;
```
</details>


## Examples

See [examples](examples/README.md)

## OAuth Support

See [oauth_support](docs/OAUTH_SUPPORT.md) for details.


## Related Resources

- [MCP Specification](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/)
- [Schema](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/specification/blob/main/schema/2024-11-05/schema.ts)

## Related Projects
- [containerd-mcp-server](https://github.com/jokemanfire/mcp-containerd) - A containerd-based MCP server implementation

## Development with Dev Container
See [docs/DEVCONTAINER.md](docs/DEVCONTAINER.md) for instructions on using Dev Container for development.

Commit message:

refactor: refactor tool macros and router implementation (#261)
* refactor: refactor tool macros and router implementation

- Updated the `#[tool(tool_box)]` macro to `#[tool_router]` across various modules for consistency.
- Enhanced the `Calculator`, `Counter`, and `GenericService` structs to utilize `ToolRouter` for handling tool calls.
- Introduced `Parameters` struct for better parameter handling in tool functions.
- Added new methods for listing tools and calling tools in server handlers.
- Improved test cases to reflect changes in tool routing and parameter handling.
- Updated documentation and examples to align with the new router structure.

* fix: fix fmt and build error

* fix: fix test failure

* docs: documents for macros, fix ci

* fix: fix ci

* fix: fix wrongly replaced documents

* fix: remove useless file

* fix: change the parameter format for tool_router

* fix: update extract_doc_line to handle existing documentation and clean up unused code in server handler

* doc: update document for macro and examples

* doc: update readme and add contribute guide

* fix: fix type

README.md, after:

<div align = "right">
<a href="docs/readme/README.zh-cn.md">简体中文(待更新)</a>
</div>

# RMCP
Wait for the first release.
<!-- [![Crates.io Version](todo)](todo) -->
<!-- ![Release status](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg) -->
<!-- [![docs.rs](todo)](todo) -->
![Coverage](docs/coverage.svg)

An official rust Model Context Protocol SDK implementation with tokio async runtime.


This repository contains the following crates:

- [rmcp](crates/rmcp): The core crate providing the RMCP protocol implementation( If you want to get more information, please visit [rmcp](crates/rmcp/README.md))
- [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros): A procedural macro crate for generating RMCP tool implementations(If you want to get more information, please visit [rmcp-macros](crates/rmcp-macros/README.md))

## Usage

### Import the crate

```toml
rmcp = { version = "0.1", features = ["server"] }
## or dev channel
rmcp = { git = "https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/rust-sdk", branch = "main" }
```
### Third Dependencies
Basic dependencies:
- [tokio required](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tokio)
- [serde required](https://github.com/serde-rs/serde)



### Build a Client
<details>
<summary>Start a client</summary>

```rust, ignore
use rmcp::{ServiceExt, transport::{TokioChildProcess, ConfigureCommandExt}};
use tokio::process::Command;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    let client = ().serve(TokioChildProcess::new(Command::new("npx").configure(|cmd| {
        cmd.arg("-y").arg("@modelcontextprotocol/server-everything");
    }))?).await?;
    Ok(())
}
```
</details>

### Build a Server

<details>
<summary>Build a transport</summary>

```rust, ignore
use tokio::io::{stdin, stdout};
let transport = (stdin(), stdout());
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Build a service</summary>

You can easily build a service by using [`ServerHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/server.rs) or [`ClientHandler`](crates/rmcp/src/handler/client.rs).

```rust, ignore
let service = common::counter::Counter::new();
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Start the server</summary>

```rust, ignore
// this call will finish the initialization process
let server = service.serve(transport).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Interact with the server</summary>

Once the server is initialized, you can send requests or notifications:

```rust, ignore
// request
let roots = server.list_roots().await?;

// or send notification
server.notify_cancelled(...).await?;
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Waiting for service shutdown</summary>

```rust, ignore
let quit_reason = server.waiting().await?;
// or cancel it
let quit_reason = server.cancel().await?;
```
</details>


## Examples

See [examples](examples/README.md)

## OAuth Support

See [oauth_support](docs/OAUTH_SUPPORT.md) for details.


## Related Resources

- [MCP Specification](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2024-11-05/)
- [Schema](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/specification/blob/main/schema/2024-11-05/schema.ts)

## Related Projects
- [containerd-mcp-server](https://github.com/jokemanfire/mcp-containerd) - A containerd-based MCP server implementation

## Development

### Tips for Contributors
See [docs/CONTRIBUTE.MD](docs/CONTRIBUTE.MD) to get some tips for contributing.

### Using Dev Container
If you want to use dev container, see [docs/DEVCONTAINER.md](docs/DEVCONTAINER.md) for instructions on using Dev Container for development.
